I've been an elder of the church here since 1962, I think it is, so more than 50 years.
So I've been involved in the changes that have taken place in the church since 1950s when I came here.
The original building was called Corporation Road Forward Movement Hall in 1900,
which was a building which held 2,000 people, which was part of the Welsh Revival in Wales,
where preachers came full of hul, have you ever heard of hul?
Where they got very, very strong preachers jumping up and down and shouting and all kinds of things.
And the person who was part of that original Welsh Revival was called Roderick Jones,
and everybody knew Uncle Roderick, they called him, I never knew him,
but he was the person who set it all going until the 1950s really, so the church was here through both wars,
and we've got some artefacts of memorials.
It's interesting that the memorial to the first World War people, there's over 50 people who died from the church here.
Second World War, there was 12, I think.
So what's happened, 2,000 people in 1900 gradually, gradually as the church changed over the years,
120 people in about the 1950s when the church people had to decide what to do with the building
because it started to fall down when land-worn steelworks was being built by the lorries causing,
exacerbating cracks that had begun to appear in 1908.
In 1908, the back end of the building had to be tied to the front end to stop it falling over because there was no foundations.
Oh, can you build a building for me? Oh dear.
Anyway, in the 1950s it started to fall down to such a degree that the church had to make a decision what to do.
Pull the building down, cut it in half so it was only the bottom half, or buttress it so that it held up the various bits.
And we then embarked on a series of studies, Bible studies, report studies from the World Council of Churches,
looking at, and I can remember the title of the report was, What on Earth is the Church for?
Which is a very good title.
And one of the reports came up with the answer, the church is for others.
It's not for itself, it's for others.
And we worked through that and as a result of that then decided that the building we wanted in order to be the church for others was more of a community building.
When he said we, you mean? Yes, who's the we?
It's the members who were divided up into house groups between 10 and 12 people who met together, I think probably monthly to begin with,
to consider this question, what are we going to do with this building and how are we going to use it?
And that's when we began to gather together answers as to what on earth is the church for.